So welcome back in I hope you had an opportunity to try it out.
So we did want to create two more inputs and one of them would be a number.
And the other one can just remain text but we're only going to get characters in here so let's call
this one numb and let's call this one car S.H. cha.
And in here let's add in some numbers and in here let's add in some characters.
So now when we validate Let's get revalidate e-mail and we're going to validate the inputs.
So we're going to validate all of the inputs to make sure that they have the proper content that we're
expecting within those inputs.
So remember again each one we've got different expectations and we've got to match different patterns
for them.
And let's use something different where we're going to use instead to get element by ID.
So let's get an array of all the inputs so do I.
And instead of get element by id let's do get elements and elements by tag name.
So this is the one where we're actually going to get an array of elements being returned back and we're
going to look for any that have the input tag.
So it's going to pick up all of those elements there and we notice we've got one type of button.
So we need to be specific that this has to be type text and we'll grab that within our conditions.
So the next thing that we want to do is we want to loop through all of those inputs and then the last
lesson we saw a quicker way to loop through our array.
But we're going to default back to our FOR loop.
So let's let's show X and loop while X is less than the length of II.
And next we need to increment X so that we can break out of our loop.
So there is or loop and we know that we're looping through all of those values.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to pick up the type of input that it is.
So let's do our check.
So now we have a condition here.
And let's check to see the import type.
So I and then X for the index and we can get the type there.
So let's also console log.
All of those inputs so that we can take a closer look as we go through them as we loop through them.
So Konsole log all of those out.
And let's take a look at the type and we're going to check to see if the type is equal to text and text
is the one that we're looking for.
So we're only looking to return the ones with text and those are the ones we actually want to do something
with.
So let's loop through and if it is equal to text then we know that we have one where we can do one of
our conditions.
So next we can see if the ID so we can apply a number of conditions here.
So let's check to see if X ID and this is where we can be more more specific on what we're looking at.
So we know that we have one that's called email and if it's email then we know within here we need to
validate email valid email.
So we need to check to see if it's got a valid e-mail.
The next one we're going to check to see if it's got an ID of none.
And then this one we're checking to see if it's got a valid number.
And then lastly let's check to see if this one has an ID of S.H. A.
And that's the ID there so this one is the one where we are going to get characters let's characters
that's numbers.
And now next thing we need to do and typically usually I like to write up functions in order to do this
check.
So there's a number of ways you can do it you could have a whole check here within here as well but
let's write up separate functions in case we need to reuse them.
So this one is going to be check email so see email and then we're going to get the value being passed
in ASCII.
So this one we'll check email.
Next one will check number.
Again we'll pass through that value.
And then lastly let's do one more and this one is going to check to see if it's characters and again
taken that value and there we're going to do our check to see if it's actually valid and return back
if it's valid or not.
So the first one we're checking to see if the valid the value is a valid email.
And for this one let's just do another condition.
So this one will check email and we're going to pass that value in an X ID value
so pass that in and if it's true then we know we need to actually we can just console log that that
well just slots console log out email valid.
So I think we're ready to try that out.
And for now let's just return back true and we'll do our reg ex try it out now and everything looks
like it's working.
So we see that we're outputting a valid e-mail.
So let's make this invalid and we still see that we're getting that valid e-mail because of course we've
got to do our e-mail check and we can actually copy out quite a bit of what we had earlier that we could
have here.
So this does not seem parameter that we're checking next.
We're checking to see if there's a match.
And if we're getting back no then we're returning back false otherwise we're returning back true.
So this is where we can actually make use of the return where we can return back of value and we can
even shorten this a little bit as well by getting rid of this part.
And now let's see if we get back a true or false.
And also check to make sure that we're also logging not
so else and we need to have something else there.
We'll call it bad e-mail so that's what's going to Koppen if that email is not a Vado e-mail.
So let's go back and refresh it and we get it working.
And I do want to actually comment this one out because that's writing in quite a bit there within our
output.
So we just want to see a valid email and next.
Delete it and we see bad e-mail.
So next I want you to do if you haven't done so already update that and create checks for the numbers
and for the characters.
So use that same format and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So let's grab the same format here because we know that the only thing that we actually need to change
within this function is our regular expression.
So this is going to be fairly easy and we need to actually change our regular expression.
And in this time we're only looking for letters.
So we're looking for only letters within this character and we're not looking for anything else.
So let's go back and return that.
And we're looking for multiple letters.
So that's fine.
So let's just make sure that.
And let's go ahead and try this within Reg x R and the other thing that I did want to mention is if
you want to change the character set you can always do
shift shift 6.
And this gives you this little Chevron.
And basically that allows you to negate it.
So we're actually looking for anything that would be in there that is actually not a character.
And that's what we want to return back within our regular expression because if we're looking for characters
then if we return back characters then there's obviously going to be some characters in there so let's
make sure that we have no non characters and if we have a match then basically that means that we need
to return back.
So we need to switch this around so we're going to look for if it's no then we're turning back true.
And if it's if we do find something that is a non character then we're going to return back false.
So let's save that.
Open up our browser and refresh it.
And this time we're looking for characters and we also need to have that condition here.
So if it's so let's say that was in the wrong one there.
So let's just clean this up a bit.
So let's say Now we're looking for the characters and we're going to see character only valid.
On character
is string
and one more thing that we are copying and pasting.
Let's just make sure that we're actually applying it to the right function.
So this time we're looking for the characters.
So we're all ready to go.
Let's refresh it and check to see who's got character only valid.
Let's put some non characters in there and we see non characters in the string.
So it's not valid anymore.
So there's one left and for this one we've got to look for only numbers.
And we can copy quite a bit of what we did earlier where we can just simply paste that in and see numbers
and this time let's see.
Only valid non numbers.
In the string.
So let's save that.
So once we coffee that and we can pretty much copy what we've got within the characters and the only
thing that we need to update is that we're looking for only digits.
So you can go back out here and the one that looks for only digits is the D.
So basically this is non digit so it matches any characters that are non digit.
And basically if we find a match then we know that within here then this is not valid.
So if we do find that digit match we know that this is not what we're looking for so let's do that.
Let's add in the D and clean that up.
So we don't even need the eye either.
So this is why we need to keep that forward slash in there so forth slash d forward slash or forward
slash backward slash the forward slash.
And then this can also be true and false.
The same thing.
So now let's try it out.
So now we're looking to see if so they're all valid.
And let's update this to some characters.
We see that there's not numbers in the strings if here we put some non characters we see that that.
And then if we just get rid of the e-mail we get bad e-mail.
So everything is working properly.
And then there was quite a bit within this lesson.
But I do want you to as well practice and get more familiar with what's available within regular expressions.
And as mentioned Reg x R is a great place to try it out and see what's actually being returned and then
it's a matter of applying that correct logic.
And then we did have quite a bit here where we had conditions within conditions.
And so this was something that does take a little bit more time to get familiar with.
And then lastly we also did want to make sure that there is actually a value within the input.
So for this part you could just do that whole thing and just make sure that instead of doing them separately
you can just check to see if this one is not equal to blank.
And then if it's not equal to blank then we can say.
Or if it is equal to blank it's
no value.
And and from here we can concatenate it and maybe we can return back that ID.
So let's do this see let's do the x value ID and I do need to fix this up because we're not calling
out to the function anymore so we're just simply looking at the value.
So now let's try that out and go out and save your code.
So don't forget to save and try to end this time if there's no values in there.
We should detect and we should be able to see no value in e-mail and no value in.
So there's no value in number and so on.